# Retail-Sales-Forecasting-using-Time-series-data
Sales forecasting is a fundamental assignment in retailing. Retail chains have always worked in a competitive environment with increasingly tight margins. The correct use of data can make a difference, therefore predicting sales as well as knowing the effectiveness in different departments, commercial campaigns and consumer behaviour can make a difference and help us to be more commercially efficient, have a correct Stock of products, adjust the workforce among others. The present work allows to facilitate and automate this task in order to facilitate decision-making. In such manner, the usage of machine-learning models for sales predictive investigation were studied. The detailed study and examination of predictive models is to improve sales predictions. Millions of reviews are being created daily which makes it hard for a consumer to make a good decision on whether to shop for the product. Investigating this huge number of opinions is hard and tedious for product manufacturers. Sales forecasting allows companies to spot potential issues or risks and design appropriate corrective actions to mitigate them. Sales forecasting helps sales managers planning their future activities, providing each of them with a business plan for managing their territory. Major transformations can be seen in the domain of sales and marketing as a result of Machine Learning advancements. Owing to such advancements, various critical aspects such as consumers’ purchase patterns, target audience, and predicting sales for the recent years to come can be easily determined, thus helping the sales team in formulating plans for a boost in their business.
